This is my third Computational Electromagnetics (CEM) project, which is a scattered field analysis of a perfect conducting cylinder with the Moment Method.

Project background and motivation:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Maxwell’s equations set describes the fundamental relationship between the electromagnetic fields and their source, therefore, solving Maxwell’s equations allow us to obtain realistic description of the spatial distribution and time-evolution of electromagnetic fields given a certain source within certain media. However, the real world engineering problems, which usually involves solving for the field within inhomogeneous or anisotropic media with arbitrary boundary shape and boundary condition, do not guarantee a simple and ideal object configurations and propagation mediz. Consequently, in many of the real world engineering problems, it becomes inpractical to solve Maxwell’s equations analytically.
  
	Fortunately, with the development of modern electronic computer, numerical simulations and analysis on electromagnetic fields governed by Maxwell’s equations become more efficient and robust, as various numerical methods are developed to approximate the solutions of partial differential equation(s) efficiently. Some methods approximate the solution of Maxwell’s equations by directly solving the related partial differential equations, such as the Finite Difference Time Domain (FDTD) method and the Finite Element Method (FEM). Other methods, such as the Method of Moment (MoM), also known as the Moment Method, approximate the solution by solving the integral equation obtained from the interested partial differential equation(s). MoM is particularly useful and efficient to open-region (where the outer bound of the interested domain extends to infinity) electromagnetic problems, such as scattering problem and antenna radiations. In the MoM formulation of scalar field problems, we usually start from the integral equation of the unknown scalar field to be solved, then pick a finite set of basis function to approximate the unknown scalar field over the domain where it is defined. Next the integral equation can be converted into a linear system by multiplying the integral equation with a testing function and integrating over the solution domain. Finally, solving the resulting linear system yields the solution of interested scalar field. 
  
	In this project, I studied the scattering problem by an infinitely long perfect conducting square cylinder in free space under a certain plane wave as the incident field, using the Moment Method. By the assumption that the cylinder extends infinitely long along z-direction, we know that the scattered field is only dependent on two free spatial variables (in this case, 𝑥 and 𝑦), therefore the analysis can be performed as a 2D problem on the 𝑥 − 𝑦 plane. I chose zeroth-order basis function, also called pulse basis function (which assumes that the unknown scalar field is constant over each discretization element) and the Dirac delta function for the testing function. This combination of the choice of the basis function and testing function to formulate the linear system of integral equation is called the point matching. First, I obtained the Electric Field Integral Equation (EFIE) and the Magnetic Field Integral Equation (MFIE), for TM and TE polarization cases, respectively. Next, I discretized the corresponding integral equation (using point matching) to set up the linear system, from which I can solve for the induced surface current density on the conducting cylinder. Then, I formulated the discretized integral equation to calculate the scattered field outside of the conducting cylinder using the induced surface current density. The total field outside the conducting cylinder is just the summation of the incident field and scattered field. Finally, I analyzed the results of the induced surface current density under TM and TE polarization, and the associated scattered field with my MoM code.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Finished by Jianghuai Liu with MATLAB, on 2019/12/15 at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. All rights reserved.
